README.md, before:

Laptop
======

Laptop is a script to set up an OS X laptop for web development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely.
It installs, upgrades, or skips packages
based on what is already installed on the machine.

Requirements
------------

We support:

* [OS X Mavericks (10.9)](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/os-x-mavericks/id675248567)
* [OS X Yosemite (10.10)](https://www.apple.com/osx/)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested. Bug reports for older
versions are welcome.

Install
-------

You don't have to clone this repo, just download, review, then execute the script:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wellist/laptop/master/mac
less mac
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

This script automatically adds to your .bashrc file. If you don't use .bashrc (e.g. .bash_profile, .zshrc), ensure those additions are copied to where they need to be and refresh your terminal, if need be. 

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it to see if
you can debug the issue yourself. If not, copy the lines where the script
failed into a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/wellist/laptop/issues/new) for us. Or, attach the
whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

* [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
* [Foreman] for managing web processes
* [gh] for interacting with the GitHub API
* [Heroku Toolbelt] for interacting with the Heroku API
* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries
* [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images
* [Node.js] and [NPM], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
* [Postgres] with [Postgis] for storing relational data
* [Qt] for headless JavaScript testing via Capybara Webkit
* [Rbenv] for managing versions of Ruby
* [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
* [Redis] for storing key-value data
* [Ruby Build] for installing Rubies
* [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
* [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
* [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[Exuberant Ctags]: http://ctags.sourceforge.net/
[Foreman]: https://github.com/ddollar/foreman
[gh]: https://github.com/jingweno/gh
[Heroku Toolbelt]: https://toolbelt.heroku.com/
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[ImageMagick]: http://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[Postgis]:http://postgis.net/
[Postgres]:http://http://www.postgresql.org/
[Qt]: http://qt-project.org/
[Rbenv]: https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[Redis]: http://redis.io/
[Ruby Build]: https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: http://tmux.sourceforge.net/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the Laptop script.
Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew_tap 'caskroom/cask'
brew_install_or_upgrade 'brew-cask'

brew cask install dropbox
brew cask install google-chrome
brew cask install rdio

gem_install_or_update 'parity'

brew_install_or_upgrade 'tree'
brew_install_or_upgrade 'watch'
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo`,
`brew_install_or_upgrade`, and
`gem_install_or_update`
can be used in your `~/.laptop.local`.

See the [wiki](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/wiki)
for more customization examples.

Contributing
------------

Edit the `mac` file.
Document in the `README.md` file.
Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck] and [Syntastic].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: http://www.shellcheck.net/about.html
[Syntastic]: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic

Thank you, [contributors]!

[contributors]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/graphs/contributors

License
-------

Laptop is © 2011-2015 thoughtbot, inc.
It is free software,
and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[LICENSE]: LICENSE

About thoughtbot
----------------

![thoughtbot](https://thoughtbot.com/logo.png)

Laptop is maintained and funded by thoughtbot, inc.
The names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc.

We are passionate about open source software.
See [our other projects][community].
We are [available for hire][hire].

[community]: https://thoughtbot.com/community?utm_source=github
[hire]: https://thoughtbot.com?utm_source=github

Commit message:

helpful rbenv tips, update ruby version, manually install postgis, remove mention of heroku (#7)

README.md, after:

Laptop
======

Laptop is a script to set up an OS X laptop for web development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely.
It installs, upgrades, or skips packages
based on what is already installed on the machine.

Requirements
------------

We support:

* [OS X Mavericks (10.9)](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/os-x-mavericks/id675248567)
* [OS X Yosemite (10.10)](https://www.apple.com/osx/)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested. Bug reports for older
versions are welcome.

Install
-------

You don't have to clone this repo, just download, review, then execute the script. Don't neglect to tee the output to a log file!

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wellist/laptop/master/mac
less mac
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

This script automatically adds to your .bashrc file. If you don't use .bashrc (e.g. .bash_profile, .zshrc), ensure those additions are copied to where they need to be and refresh your terminal, if need be. Specifically, make sure that your PATH is modified correctly for rbenv. This may fix other problems you might encounter, so if you have an issue, check your rbenv and try running the script again.

If you run into issues related to bundling during the setup script, check that rbenv is setup correctly using the following [rbenv-doctor](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv#homebrew-on-macos) script:

    curl -fsSL https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv-installer/raw/master/bin/rbenv-doctor | bash

During the laptop script, rbenv commands are added to `.bashrc`. Your terminal may use `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc` for zshell. Try running these command in your terminal (using the correct shell config file, of course).

    echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile
    echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bash_profile

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it to see if
you can debug the issue yourself. If not, copy the lines where the script
failed into a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/wellist/laptop/issues/new) for us. Or, attach the
whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

* [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
* [Foreman] for managing web processes
* [gh] for interacting with the GitHub API
* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries
* [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images
* [Node.js] and [NPM], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
* [Postgres] with [Postgis] for storing relational data
* [Qt] for headless JavaScript testing via Capybara Webkit
* [Rbenv] for managing versions of Ruby
* [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
* [Redis] for storing key-value data
* [Ruby Build] for installing Rubies
* [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
* [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
* [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[Exuberant Ctags]: http://ctags.sourceforge.net/
[Foreman]: https://github.com/ddollar/foreman
[gh]: https://github.com/jingweno/gh
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[ImageMagick]: http://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[Postgis]:http://postgis.net/
[Postgres]:http://http://www.postgresql.org/
[Qt]: http://qt-project.org/
[Rbenv]: https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[Redis]: http://redis.io/
[Ruby Build]: https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: http://tmux.sourceforge.net/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the Laptop script.
Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew_tap 'caskroom/cask'
brew_install_or_upgrade 'brew-cask'

brew cask install dropbox
brew cask install google-chrome
brew cask install rdio

gem_install_or_update 'parity'

brew_install_or_upgrade 'tree'
brew_install_or_upgrade 'watch'
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo`,
`brew_install_or_upgrade`, and
`gem_install_or_update`
can be used in your `~/.laptop.local`.

See the [wiki](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/wiki)
for more customization examples.

Contributing
------------

Edit the `mac` file.
Document in the `README.md` file.
Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck] and [Syntastic].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: http://www.shellcheck.net/about.html
[Syntastic]: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic

Thank you, [contributors]!

[contributors]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/graphs/contributors

License
-------

Laptop is © 2011-2015 thoughtbot, inc.
It is free software,
and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[LICENSE]: LICENSE

About thoughtbot
----------------

![thoughtbot](https://thoughtbot.com/logo.png)

Laptop is maintained and funded by thoughtbot, inc.
The names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc.

We are passionate about open source software.
See [our other projects][community].
We are [available for hire][hire].

[community]: https://thoughtbot.com/community?utm_source=github
[hire]: https://thoughtbot.com?utm_source=github
